News Pyramid 1.0b5 is available for download:  http://dl.metrix.net/support/dist/ Changelog/Additions: 2.6.19.2 Kernel

    -Several kernel configuration changes which result in better performance

Madwifi-ng from recent svn TRUNK

    -Should support WDS/Transparent brigding

Batmand - B.A.T.M.A.N. experimental ad-hoc routing daemon Pyramid Linux Mission The mission of the Pyramid Linux Project is to build and maintain a high quality, rock solid, entirely open source operating system for wireless networking applications. What is Pyramid?

    Pyramid is binary linux distro for use on embedded platforms. It is primarily focused on wireless applications however people have found many great uses for it. We primarily develop and test Pyramid for Metrix Boxes, but it works well on other x86 based hardware as well. Check the WorkingHardware page for more info or add to it if you find hardware not listed that works with Pyramid.

Who maintains pyramid? ¶

Pyramid is currently maintained by a few people at Metrix Communication. We are open to bringing more people on board the Pyramid team to move the OS further. We always accept patches and contributions for review. We ship Pyramid on our wireless products, which was the main motivation behind its creation. However we believe in making Pyramid as flexible as possible so it will work on as many x86 embedded platforms as possible. We build Pyramid for ourselves and the community regardless of whose hardware they choose to run it on. Supporting Pyramid Development? ¶ One easy way to support Pyramid is by choosing to buy gear from Metrix. In addition if there is hardware you want supported in Pyramid, donating such hardware to the project will help get support in Pyramid and make sure its tested from release to release. Mailing Lists ¶ There is a technical discussion and help mailing list setup for Pyramid users. Off topic posts and flame wars will not be tolerated, failure to adhere to this rule will result in being un-subscribed from the list

The mailing list has been moved to a Google Group to improve reliability (and get some nifty new features) Pyramid Linux Google Group The old (Sept 2006-March 2008) list archives are available at pyramid-linux list archive About the site ¶ This wiki aims to be the main source of documentation for Pyramid. If you are a Pyramid user or developer you are encouraged to use this wiki to document your work to share with others.

    Some good starting points are:

    FrequentlyAskedQuestions

    GettingPyramid

    InstallingPyramid

    PyramidKernel

        Pyramid changes timeline

            Other Documentation:

            ArticlesAndHowtos

            PyramidFileSystemPermissions

            ConfiguringPyramidMesh
